+++
title = "Index"
sort_by = "title"
+++

# Welcome to Elara Hub!

Elara Hub is Project Elara’s knowledge base and project management tool. Or more simply, it’s where most of the work of the project is done! In keeping with the project ideals, Elara Hub is open-source and developed together by the community.

## What is this for?

Think of this as a mixed community wiki/collaboration tool for the project. We organize things, plan things, write down notes, discuss project direction, and share knowledge with each other here. Everything is written using plaintext markdown files that are then automatically compiled into a website (which can both be viewed online and locally if working offline). 

The interface is designed to be as simple and minimal as possible. Just read through each page, and navigate by the internal links in each page. The sidebar menu (and on mobile, the top menu) provide another way to quickly and easily switch files.

## Quick start

You probably want to read the [[index page]](@/elara-hub-index.md) first, from which you can go to any other page via the internal links. The index page is also easily accessible via the "Home" link in the left sidebar menu (on desktop) or top menu (on mobile).

## Editing guide

To get started, first install [Zola](https://www.getzola.org/). Also ensure you have [Git](https://git-scm.com/) installed. Then clone the Elara Hub repository:

```
git clone https://github.com/elaraproject/elara-hub.git
cd elara-hub
```

Within that folder, run `zola serve`. You should see a local web address pop up - open that address in your browser, the site gives you a live preview as you edit. Then simply open the desired files in the `content/` folder, and begin editing!

Elara Hub is written in a plaintext format called markdown. If you're not familiar with it, that's okay! Just see the [[markdown guide]](@/markdown-guide.md).

When adding new files, make sure to add internal links to that new file to at least one other markdown file. This ensures navigability! Internal links follow the format `[[File name]](@/path-to-file.md)`, with the extra bracket differentiating them from web links.

Important to note: do not run a production build with `zola build`, always use `zola serve` when editing/viewing files locally for live preview. The production build appends the GitHub pages base url, meaning it does not work offline anymore. In addition, make sure your editor is configured to use spaces, not tabs, when editing code blocks! Otherwise they render oddly.

The site is easiest to edit with a code editor that has a command palette-style fuzzy-matching filepicker or [fzf](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf) support.

## Technical notes

All the standard markdown features are supported, including tables, math, images, code highlighting, etc. There is an optional menu but it is not required for reading the Elara Hub, because all pages are connected with internal links. The site is statically-generated by Zola and uses almost no JavaScript.

## FAQs

- Why no PDF version?
	- For several reasons. First, PDFs are very hard to make accessible, and are not really responsive. Second, the internal link system used by Elara Hub is hard to translate into PDF format. Third, the website can already be built locally, and the markdown source files can be read locally too, without any build step necessary.
- Why do I see JavaScript on a static website?
	- The website tries to use minimal JS to load quickly and work well on all devices. One tiny snippet of JS is necessary to polyfill a feature the Zola static site generator doesn't have. The rest of the JS is for math rendering, diagram rendering, etc. The website can still function without JS enabled.

## Important info

Everything on Elara Hub is <em>released into the public domain</em>. It <b>may not</b> be patented, as everyone has equal rights to it under law. However, otherwise, you may do whatever you want with it, including sell it (with or without attribution) or use it in your own work (noncommercial or commercial).
